# 1051-Final-Project

## Difficulties Faced and Overcame
The largest challenges I faced while completing the project can be broken down into three categories: coding issues, misjudgement of time, and difficulties in web design. First, touching on my coding difficulties, I come from a programming background of AP Computer Science. I became comfortable with addressing hypothetical situations through code, and my only true application outside of this realm was a final game project completed at the end of the course. As a result this, I never had to rely on existing documentation before, as there was not the concern of spending unnecessary time building a feature that someone else had already constructed and throughly tested. However, this is not the case when building a website with HTML, JavaScript, and CSS, as there is an abundance of tutorials and element documentation online. The project was my first introduction to taking the framework of someone else's base and applying it to my own needs. A few specific of these unique difficulties was often online documention assumed that static html pages were going to be used. However, as I was using Flask to dynamically generate my pages I had to format my code with this structure which required in depth editing to ensure that my webpages would be able to find my pictures in the correct directories and I would be able to utilize for and if statements to avoid hardcoding information that was already stored in my database tables. In addition, where I knew that it was the correct choice to build off of these existing frameworks to save time, I still faced feelings of doubt that it was not truly "my project" if I based elements on the code of other designers. I had to work through this doubt in order to be productive on my work and not let the feelings disuade me from using resources such as Bootstrap that made my final project more visually appealing. My second difficulty came with timing of the project. I originally had planned to integrate a registration system for fake photography classes, as well as a shop page, into my website design. However, I miscalculated how long it would take me in order to learn the required SQLite3 commands to make my gallery and photo tags possibles while working by myself. Much of my work time went into creating these features, as I had to expand on the teachings of CS50 to learn and implement calls such as 'SELECT * FROM pictures WHERE name IN (SELECT Name FROM tags WHERE tag="' + tag + '")', in order to only return the information of photos with a specific tags by referencing data from more than one table, and SELECT tag, count(\*) AS Tagcount FROM tags GROUP BY tag, in order to count the number of times a tag was used in order to build my tag option page (where the size of tag depends on the number of photographs with that tag). My third difficulty that I had to overcome was I had never before completed a project so dependent on web design and creating appealing visual aseathics in an online medium. I misjudged how long it would take testing out different fonts, sizes, and colors in order to make a webpage look professional and avoid looking tacky. This required learning about a wide variety of CSS properties such as 'cursor', 'width', 'height', 'box-shadow', and 'position', in addition to learning how to apply css only when an element is hovered over and how to establish the dimensions of pictures so they resize when the browser size changes.

# What was learned



